Comparison of schemes: Often in cryptography, we may be presented
with two schemes that can both be proven to satisfy some definition but
each with respect to a different assumption. Assuming both schemes are
equally efficient, which scheme should be preferred? If the assumption
that one scheme is based on is weaker than the assumption the second
scheme is based on (i.e., the second assumption implies the first), then
the first scheme is to be preferred since it may turn out that the second
assumption is false while the first assumption is true. If the assumptions
used by the two schemes are incomparable, then the general rule is to
prefer the scheme that is based on the better-studied assumption (for
the reasons highlighted in the previous paragraphs).
3. Facilitation of a proof of security: As we have stated, and will discuss
in more depth in principle 3, modern cryptographic constructions are
presented together with proofs of security. If the security of the scheme
cannot be proven unconditionally and must rely on some assumption,
then a mathematical proof that “the construction is secure if the assumption is true” can only be provided if there is a precise statement of
what the assumption is.
One observation is that it is always possible to just assume that a construction itself is secure. If security is well defined, this is also a precise assumption
(and the proof of security for the construction is trivial)! Of course, this is
not accepted practice in cryptography (for the most part) for a number of
reasons. First of all, as noted above, an assumption that has been tested
over the years is preferable to a new assumption that is introduced just to
prove a given construction secure. Second, there is a general preference for
assumptions that are simpler to state, since such assumptions are easier to
study and to refute. So, for example, an assumption of the type that some
mathematical problem is hard to solve is simpler to study and work with than
an assumption that an encryption schemes satisfies a complex (and possibly
unnatural) security definition. When a simple assumption is studied at length
and still no refutation is found, we have greater confidence in its being correct.
Another advantage of relying on “lower-level” assumptions (rather than just
assuming a scheme is secure) is that these low-level assumptions can typically
be shared amongst a number of constructions. If a specific instantiation of the
assumption turns out to be false, it can be replaced within the higher-level
constructions by another instantiation of that assumption.
The above methodology is used throughout this book. For example, Chapters 3 and 4 show how to achieve secure communication (in a number of ways),
assuming that a primitive called a “pseudorandom function” exists. In these
chapters nothing is said at all about how such a primitive can be constructed.
In Chapter 5, we then show how pseudorandom functions are constructed
in practice, and in Chapter 6 we show that pseudorandom functions can be
constructed from even lower-level primitives.